Title: Writeup for Project 1, Fall 2015
Date: 9/21/2015
Group: Name-----------Email
	   John Lucas	  johnluca@usc.edu
	   Ian Later	  later@usc.edu
	   Carrie Sun	  carriesu@usc.edu
	  
I. Requirements:
+Overview
Using Monitors (that we built) as well as Semaphores, implement a Passport office simulation
complete with Customers, Senators, Application Clerks, Picture Clerks, Passport Clerks, Managers and Cashiers

+Locks
Locks should prevent race conditions from happening, and need to be used in critical sections where mutual exclusion needs to occur.

+Conditions
Condition variables have no state but exist to allow locks and mutual exclusion to occur by waking up and sleeping threads under certain conditions.

+Customers
should enter office with some amount of money greater than 100, and immediately seek to get either a picture
or an application (and then do the opposite of what they chose after). After that, they should go to the
Passport clerk to be certified, and then pay at the cashier.
When picking lines, they will always choose the shortest one. If they have extra money, they can pay 500 to
use the bribe line. They will only choose the bribe option if it has the shortest line possible AND they can
afford it. They pay the bribe fee at the counter.

+Senators
Senators inherit from customers, and behave in the same way. The only difference is that upon entering the office,
any other non-senator customer in line will leave (remembering their line), and the senator will go through and get 
his passport. Once he leaves, the customers will return to their spots. Customers that were interacting with a clerk
when the senator walks in finish their interaction. If multiple senators are present, a semaphore and global boolean are used
such that the first senator finishes everything, then the second senator enters. If a customer arrives during this, they will 
determine what line to go into, and then leave.
+Application Clerks
Application clerks are clerks that, when a customer walks up, take some time to process an application, and then inform
the customer that the process is complete. The Customer stands at the counter during this brief time, and once completed,
leaves for their next destination.

+Picture Clerks
Picture Clerks are clerks that take a picture of a customer. Once the customer approaches the counter, this clerk
will take a picture, and inform the customer that it is taken. Randomly, after receiving the picture notification, the customer
will refuse the picture. At this point, the clerk will retake a picture of the same customer immediately. This will happen until the 
customer is happy, and leaves.

+Passport Clerks
Customers should only go to clerks after they have already successfully gone to both Picture and Application clerks. Because Picture and Application clerks
process customer information while the customer watches at the counter, the Passport clerk should never experience an unprepared customer. After the customer approaches,
a delay will occur while this clerk "processes", after which, the passport clerk will say that the customer has documentation, and the customer will leave.

+Managers
There is only one manager, and it will output earnings on a simulated timer, which is really just a for loop, until all other threads are done.
The earnings output will be grouped by clerk type, with cashier having the sum of all the paid passports, and the rest of the clerks showing how much they
were bribed

+Cashiers
Cashiers are the final clerks customers will ever go to. They are essentially a clerk, and after some processing time, they will confirm that the 
customer has their documents, take payment, and send the customer on their way.

II. Assumptions
1. The Passport office does not keep a record of all customers and what they have done. Instead, the customers keep track of their own credentials. This
makes it so the customer is the authority on whether or not they can receive credentials from a clerk, not the clerk checking a database.
2. Customers can always at least afford to pay the cashier
3. There is always at least one of each clerk
4. There are always at least 20 customers at start, to avoid clerks getting told incorrectly to go on break.

III. Design
+Solve multithreading
we used a number of Monitors, and Semaphores:
LOCKS
clerkLock[NUM_CLERKS] - each clerk gets 1 Lock for interaction with customer
clerkLineLock - one lock TOTAL to be used to pick shortest line
outsideLock - used in senator situation to keep customers out and decide when to come back
senatorSemaphore - used in senator situation to make sure one senator at a time uses office, and released to allow customers back in
CV's
clerkLineCV[NUM_CLERKS] - 
clerkBribeLineCV[NUM_CLERKS]
clerkCV[NUM_CLERKS] - used between customer and clerk to exchange information in interaction
clerkBreakCV[NUM_CLERKS]
senatorCV
MV's (shared data that is guaranteed thread safe by use of Monitors)
clerkLineCount[] - list of ints, one for each clerkID, that is updated to reflect line length
clerkBribeLineCount[] - same as clerkLineCount, but for BribeLines
clerkState[] - list of ints, one for each clerk, updated to reflect if clerk is FREE, BUSY, or ON_BREAK
totalEarnings[] - list of ints updated by customer upon payment, and outpus by Manager periodically
senatorInBuilding - boolean, lets other customers know when to react to senator
clerkCurrentCustomer[] - list of ints that relate clerk id to the id of the current customer. produced by customer consumed by clerk
clerkCurrentCustomerSSN[] - same as clerkCurrentCustomer, but used to pass SSN to clerks

+Main Classes for all people
+Clerk - for Cashier, Application, Passport, and Picture clerks
public members:
constructor/destructor
Name Getter
Type Getter - what kind of clerk this is
virtual doJob() - to be implemented specifically by each child
run() - no params, the while loop that runs the whole thread
protected members:
type (integer corresponding to what kind of clerk this is)
name (for debug purposes)
id (unique for each clerk, assigned on construction)

+Customer - for Customer(literally) and Senators
public members:
constructor/destructor
Name Getter
run (no params, the while loop that runs the whole thread)
protected:
pickLine - called while this thread has control of Line Critical Section, determines which line to go into based on this customer's credentials and load of lines. Also determines Bribery)
private:
isNextClerkType(int type) - used within pickLine to determine whether customer should consider this line, given current credentials
giveData(int clerkType) - called once an interaction with any clerk is established. Responds based on clerk type to determine customer action 
checkSenator() - Tests MV for senator in the building and that it is not current senator(since senators are customers they shouldn't shut themselves out). If there's a senator, the customer waits by trying to acquire the senator semapohre. as soon as they're free they release the semaphore to free up another customer. This function is called at the beginning of the customer cycle to catch customers who may have just finished clerk interactions and also right after customers leave line since they may have been sent out by the senators broadcast. 
name - for debug purposes
myLine - corresponds to unique id of clerk I'm in line/interacting with
id - unique id assigned upon construction
ssn - social security number. unique to each customer. 1000 + id
credentials[4] - array of ints that are set when a clerk provides customer with correct document. used by customer to determine right decision to make
rememberLine - int where customer saves their line number before leaving after a senator appears. this has the similar checks for the senator that checkSenator has. It is used by pick line to skip choosing a new line and also to determine if the customer was evicted by senator and should thus go through the nested process that repeats getting in line (including the possiblity that they were first in line and should in fact go straight to clerk interaction)
isBribing - boolean that starts false and is set true if customer can afford to bribe and bribing is best choice. set true in pickline, and set false after interaction

+Manager - is its own class
public: 
constructor/destructor
run() - major function that includes while loop that runs whole thread. Manager's is special in that it is simulating a timer with a for loop in which it yields until outputting earnings, then repeats. also manages clerk breaks
private:
outputEarnings() - uses totalEarnings[] array to print amount of money each clerk type has made on time interval
name - for debug purposes

+Senators - inherits from customer
public:
constructor/destructor
run() - major function that includes main while loop that runs thread
private:
EnterOffice() - occurs at start of run() with semaphore test so that only one senator can be in office at a time and also to have customers "wait outside" at critical points. The senator then broadcasts to all lines to evict the customers, and waits for them to do so before waiting for each clerk lock aka waiting for clerks to finish current jobs
ExitOffice() - removes from list of senators, tells whole office that they can resume operations as normal via "releasing" semaphore

+Design note
when threads are created, each class's run() is invoked. This includes the while(true) that every class has, even customer. The while is in customer, because we re-use the loop to go to each clerk,
give the correct data for the interaction, and determine next steps. Customers break out of the while loop by breaking upon finishing with the Cashier.
Randomness is also used in many situations, such as customers deciding to bribe, or customers not liking their photo. It is also used to make "dumb customers" that try to go to a line they are not prepared for.

IV. Implementation
	+Files Modified
	threadtest.cc
	synch.cc
	synch.h
	+Files Added
	N/A
	+Data Structures added, and file added to
	Clerk (and child classes), Customer (and child class), Manager - threadtest.cc
	
	+Data Structures modified, and the file added to
	Lock, Condition - synch.h and synch.cc
	
	+Functions added and in which file
	All members of Clerk - threadtest.cc
	All members of ApplicationClerk - threadtest.cc
	All members of PictureClerk - threadtest.cc
	All members of PassportClerk - threadtest.cc
	All memebrs of CashierClerk - threadtest.cc
	All members of Customer - threadtest.cc
	All members of Senators - threadtest.cc
	All Manager of Senator - threadtest.cc
	Rpeatable test code functions - threadtest.cc
	
	+Functions modified and in which file
	all Lock and Condtion functions - synch.cc, synch.h
	
V. Testing
	+How to test
	while in code/threads directory,
	enter "nachos -T"
	read prompts, and enter 1-7 OR s to pick repeatable test OR custom run office
	press enter (enter number of each person if s chosen), test will run
	
	+Test Output
	1) Prove that no 2 customers ever choose the same shortest line at the same time.
	2) Prove that managers only read from one Clerk's total money received, at a time
	3) Prove that Customers do not leave until they are given their passport by the Cashier. The Cashier does not start on another customer until they know that the last Customer has left their area.
	4) Prove that Clerks go on break when they have no one waiting in their line.
	5) Prove that Managers get Clerks off their break when lines get too long.
	6) Prove that total sales never sufers from a race condition. This is proven by checking how many times the Manager's sale array is updated. It is a TRUE test if it is updated the same as the number of customers (15) and this will be stated in printed output
	7) Prove that Customers behave properly when Senators arrive.

	
VI. Discussion
	+Experiment expectation (What is supposed to happen)
		Customers and Clerks will act according to out understanding of the requirements. Regardless of number of customers( as long as larger than 20), and as long as at least one of each clerk,
		customers should go through whole process properly, with some bribes and mistakes made, in order to file in and get passports.
	+Experiment result. (What actually happened)
		Results are as expected, however there is a bit of a delay in ending the program. IT IS NOT FAILING. The Manager simply needs to tick once to print its data, and then the program will exit after that.
	+Explanation
		Manager's for loop that simulates a timer needs to tick to finish its process, and to check to finish as a thread. This is seen as generally acceptable.
	
VIII. Miscellaneous:
